---
layout: post
title: "CTAT in OLI Development - Tips and Tricks"
author: Michael Ringenberg
date: 2017-05-01
---
Be forewarned reader, this post is likely to contain lots of jargon and
is targeted for advanced developers of
[CTAT](https://github.com/CMUCTAT/CTAT/) tutors and
[OLI](https://oli.cmu.edu/) content authors (eg) people who are
happier messing around with the source code of these artifacts (both
HTML5/Javascript and XML). I will try to provide helpful links where I
can, but this is meant to be helpful notes instead of instructional.

I have been working on getting some interesting CTAT tutors and
deploying them primarily in OLI as part of what I do these days. To
these ends, here are some tricks and tips I have been using to make
deployment easier for myself.

# Using npm to get libraries
[npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) is one way to deal with getting
libraries that your javascript code depends on and keeping it up to
date. Unfortunately, neither CTAT nor OLI publish their libraries
using `npm` as of the writing of this post, however this does not
mean that `npm` cannot still be used to help get them, if you have
access to the respective code repositories.

If you have a local copy of the CTAT svn repository, doing a
`npm install --save /path/to/CTAT/source/` will place the necessary
files in node_modules/ctat which then can be loaded into your scripts
and html files.

If you have access to the
[Simon-Initiative](https://github.com/orgs/Simon-Initiative) GitHub
organization, then getting the necessary library to run a CTAT tutor
as an inline activity can be added using
`npm install --save
git+ssh://git@github.com/Simon-Initiative/simon-oli-javascript.git`

As it is a common and useful dependency, installing jquery is highly
recommended: `npm install --save jquery`

# Using bower to get libraries
I know there is a big debate as to whether [bower](https://bower.io/)
is necessary as npm is better at handling dependencies, but I have
also found bower useful in this situation for two main reasons. The
first is that bower can handle files that are not part of a package.

Case in point, if you do not have access to the CTAT source code but
would like to keep local copies of up-to-date versions of the libraries,
[bower](https://bower.io/) can be used. Once bower is installed, you
can use the following commands to get the CTAT library and css from
the CTAT cdn:
`bower install https://cdn.ctat.cs.cmu.edu/releases/latest/CTAT.min.css --save` and
`bower install https://cdn.ctat.css.cmu.edu/releases/latest/ctat.min.js --save`
after that, running `bower update` when there is a new release will
keep you up to date. Note that this will install the CTAT files as
`bower_components/CTAT/index.css` and `bower_components/ctat/index.js`
respectively. 

The second reason is `grunt-bower-concat` which is a grunt module that
can take the various modules in bower_components and build a single js
and a single css file that can be included in the CTAT tutor, making
it much easier to build the bundle for installation in OLI. It is also
possible to do this using grunt and npm, but it requires more coding
and maintenance. 

# CTAT tutor as OLI embedded activity
Getting a CTAT tutor as an embedded activity in OLI is still a
relatively new feature and might not be fully featured at the
moment. In other words, it appears to work but has not been fully
evaluated and I am not sure that logging is fully integrated. I do
know that problem state save and restore is not working.

To make an embedded CTAT tutor, it helps to develop the tutor normally
at first in order to test it and for creation of the brd file. Once
you are satisfied with your tutor create a new html file that only
contains the content of your tutor interface file between the body
tags. Do not include any javascript or css information in this
file. Any javascript or css should be in external files that will be
included later.

Next, create an x-oli-embed-activity xml file (eg)
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE embed_activity PUBLIC "-//Carnegie Mellon University//DTD Embed 1.1//EN" "http://oli.cmu.edu/dtd/oli-embed-activity_1.0.dtd">
<embed_activity id="nodes_ancestors_z2_embed" width="550" height="660">
    <title>Find the Ancestors</title>
    <source>webcontent/js/oli.min.js</source>
    <assets>
      <asset name="brd">webcontent/CTATBehaviorGraphs/Ancestors_z2.brd</asset>
      <asset name="style">webcontent/css/_bower.css</asset>
      <asset name="style">webcontent/css/Tutor.css</asset>
      <asset name="javascript">webcontent/js/_bower.js</asset>
      <asset name="javascript">webcontent/css/Tutor.js</asset>
      <asset name="javascript">webcontent/js/build.js</asset>
      <asset name="layout">webcontent/CTATGraphNode_embed.html</asset>
    </assets>
</embed_activity>
```

Notes:
1. webcontent/js/oli.min.js is required and is the library I got
   from
   `git+ssh://git@github.com/Simon-Initiative/simon-oli-javascript.git`
   contact OLI to get the latest version of this file.
1. the _bower.* files are the results of the grunt-bower-concat step
   above and includes things like jquery and CTAT.
1. The Tutor.* files contain any code or css that is particular to
   that tutor. These files would contain any custom code that was in
   or loaded into the original html tutor file.
1. The "layout" asset is the file for the interface that only includes the
   content between the body tags from the original tutor html file.
1. The "brd" asset is the brd file for the tutor.
1. The "webcontent/js/build.js" file is another required file and
   should only contain:
   ```javascript
function build() {
    initTutor({
        question_file: APIActivity.getDownloadableResource(
            APIActivity.findResourceByExtension(".brd"))
    });
}
```
   which is the code necessary to launch the tutor in the embedded
   environment.
   
